.. Copyright 2018 Peter K. G. Williams and collaborators. Licensed under the
   Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

.. _transform-training-set:

Transform Your Training Set
===========================

The :ref:`standard parameters <standard-output-parameters>` of radiative
transfer in the Stokes basis are the easiest to work with in a scientific
context, but they can be tricky to work with when doing numerical
approximations. This is because they must obey invariants such as

.. math::

   |j_I| > |j_Q|,

which can be broken in the face of approximation noise. Therefore,
*neurosynchro* internally uses a transformed set of parameters that donâ€™t have
to obey such invariants.

Once you have generated training set data, then, you must transform them into
this internal representation. This is done with the ``transform`` subcommand
of the ``neurosynchro`` command that gets installed along with the
*neurosynchro* Python package. Usage is straightforward::

  $ neurosynchro transform datadir >transformed.txt

Here, ``datadir`` is the name of the directory containing the training data.
The ``transform`` subcommand prints the transformed database to standard
output, so in the example above, shell redirection is used to save the results
to the file ``transformed.txt``. With a large sample of training data, the
resulting text file might be several tens of megabytes.

The ``transform`` subcommand will also filter your data, discarding any rows
containing non-finite values or with outputs that do not obey the necessary
invariants to begin with. It prints a statistical summary of this filtering to
the standard error stream.

The ``summarize`` subcommand will print out some summary information about
your training set::

  $ neurosynchro summarize .

Here, the ``.`` indicates the current directory, so that the program will
discover and analyze the ``transformed.txt`` file that you just created. You
could also give an argument of ``datadir`` to analyze the pre-transformation
inputs.

**Next**: :ref:`specify your parameter transformations <specify-parameter-transformations>`.
